Okay, so welcome back to the
stl challenge 1 solution.
I'm in section 20, and I'm in
the challenge 1 solution project.
And this is the project where we had
to write the is palindrome function.
So hopefully, you were
able to solve this problem.
It's actually quite simple when you
think about it, so let's talk about it.
The idea is -- we're
going to use a deque.
So the idea is let's say that we
have a string like aabaa, that's
obviously a palindrome, right.
It reads the same from the
front or from the back.
So what we -- then that's
coming in here is my string.
So what I want to do is I
want to create this deque
of characters right here.
And I just want to push these
characters into the deque.
So I'm going to grab that,
and I'm going to push back.
So I'm going to basically create
a deque that looks like this.
I'm going to push the
characters onto the deque.
And then what I'm going to do
is I'm going to check the front
of the deque and I'm going to
check the back of the deque, grab
whatever's there compare them.
If they are the same, then I
process them, remove them and
move on to the next ones, right.
Compare them.
If they're the same, I'm
going to remove them.
At that point, if I end up with an
empty deque or a deque with just one item
in it, then i know it's a palindrome,
it's as simple as that for something
like, let's say, 4 so I'm going to
grab that string, put it into the deque.
I'm going to grab the first
character here in the front.
I'm going to grab the last
character here in the back.
They are not equal.
So there's no way this can be
a palindrome. So I'm out right there.
Okay, so let's walk
through the actual code.
So now you know the algorithm
is pretty straightforward.
So let's look at the code right here.
Here's the is palindrome function.
And I've got a deque, and I'm
initializing it to an empty
deque, I'm just calling it d.
Then for each character in this
string s, if the character is an
alpha, right, so in other words
it's not white space, it's not a
digit, it's not special characters.
So if it's if it is alpha, then
what I'm going to do is I'm going
to convert it to uppercase and
push it onto the deque in the back.
That's it.
So once this loop is done, whatever
was in this string is now in the
deque minus the special characters and
the white space and everything else.
That's it.
Now I've got two
variables here c1 and c2.
Those are the variables that I'm using
to store what I'm reading from the
front and from the back of the deque.
And now I'm going to do
something right here.
This is my loop.
It's really simple.
While the size of the deque is greater
than 1, then I want to keep processing.
Once I hit 0 or 1, I'm done, right.
It's got to be a palindrome.
So I'm asking the deque, okay,
give me your front element,
give me your back element, and
I'm storing those in c1 and c2.
I'm getting rid of those
two elements from the deque.
I don't need them there.
And then I'm comparing them.
So if c1 is not equal to c2, then
the characters can't be the same.
There's no way this
can be a palindrome.
So I'm returning false immediately.
If I get through the
loop, I'm returning true.
It's got to be a palindrome.
So that's it that's the solution.
And as i said, this is a very common
problem given in a coding interview.
And what the interviewer wants
is for the applicant to try to
solve it a different way and then
say oh by the way, can you solve
it using a deque, and that's it.
So you can see it's a
real simple solution.
No iterators, nothing
fancy, no algorithms.
You're just using the front
and the back of the deque,
just like we're supposed to.
All right, so I hope you enjoyed this challenge.